Now you know all about electrode placement and Li Direct
So what does it all mean
The ECG machine records electrical activity using the following convention
Electrical activity moving towards
The positive end of the electron is shown is an upward deflection
On the ECG leads
Electrical forces moving away from the positive end of the electrode
Sean is a downward deflection
Electrical force moving perpendicular to the electrode will have biphasic isoelectric deflection
Or maybe no deflection
Electrical forces moving exactly parallel to the electrode will have the greatest amp
Although straightest using lead one only
Remember this week goes from the right arm towards the left arm
If the electrical forces are moving towards the patients left
Parallel and towards the positive end of the electrode
Milby a large upward deflection
If the electrical forces are moving towards the patients left but not exactly parallel to lead
And there will be an offer deflection but it will be of lesser magnitude
If the electrical forces are moving away from the positive end
Or towards the right arm in the crankcase of Lead 1
Then reflection
Will be downward
And finally if the electrical forces are moving perpendicular to the positive end of the electrode
Such a straight downward in the case of Lead 1
Vanilla bean isoelectric deflection
Orno deflect
By comparing the deflection
And all 12-lead shown on ECG
You can determine exactly which direction impulses traveling at any given moment
I want to make sure that the factions are clear
Since the force to move an inferior Li
They're traveling towards the positive ends of the inferior leads
2 3 and avf
This Workshop as positive flexion
In a normal Rhythm depolarization begins in SA node at the Superior part of the right atrium
And spreads downwards during atrial depolarization
Therefore during normal atrial depolarization the inferior leads should show positive deflection
This is a fundamental concept that will come again soon
Now it's time to learn the major deflections of an ECG
First comes a P wave which represents atrial depolarization
As I already showed depolarization translates to physical contracture
Do calcium dependent calcium release
However by convention Easton juice don't show contraction they show depolarization
You can only actually visualize contraction through images
Such as an echocardiogram
It may be semantics and many people don't stick this convention
But I feel is important to stink
Do the conduction delay at the AV node the tracing returns to Baseline after the P wave
Next to see the QRS complex which is when the ventricles are depolarizing
The tracing return to Baseline again after QRS
And lastly you see the T wave which represents the repolarization or relaxation of the ventricles
Atrial repolarization is not seen
Because it was hidden within the QRS complex since the Atria are relaxing while the ventricles are Contracting
Let's break down the QRS complex
Any initial downward deflection is AQ wave
The first upper deflection is called an R wave
Any downward deflection pass Baseline after an R wave is an essay
Any subsequent upward deflection after an S Wave is called in R prime wave
Many QRS complexes have an initial deflection that is upward enough to not have a Q wave
There many different QRS pattern
Do you have a normal QRS
Where the initial deflection is downward
The Q wave
Then there's a positive deflection the r-wave and then finally another downward deflection
Pass Baseline the S Wave
You can also have an R wave
Which is simply an upward deflection that returns to Baseline
Notice that there are no downward deflection below Baseline
So there are no Q or S waves
There's also the Q waves
Which is an initial downward deflection that returns to Baseline
I would call the Q wave but some people call this a QRS Wave by convention
This one shows an initial upward deflect
Action followed by a downward deflection past Baseline
So this is called an RS wave
You can also have this wave
Which shows an initial upward deflection
The r-wave
Then a downward deflection Pass based on
The S Wave
And finally another up or deflect
Pass Baseline the are PrimeWay
Therefore this is called an rsr Prime pattern
Also referred to as bunny ears
Of course ventricular depolarization follow the conduction pathway that we described earlier including the right and left bundle branches
McKendree cells and the ventricular myocytes and selves
But ECGs don't show the depolarization of single myocytes
They show the overall depolarization in a given Direction
To make this clear the following explanation is talking about the average impulse Vector at a given point in time
Keeping this in mind
You should know that these varying QRS patterns exist
Because ventricular depolarization does not occur in Only One Direction
If for example the ventricles were simply activated from right to left
Then the QRS would simply look like
Tall R wave as the impulse travel towards the left lateral leads
Such as V5 V6
1 and AVL
And I'm deep Q wave
In AVR as the impulse travels away from the right
Unfortunately it's a little more complicated than that
Instead ventricular depolarization begins in the left side of the interventricular septum
And then spreads downward and rightward
Towards the right ventricle
When the right and left ventricles are depolarizing the left ventricle dominant
Because it has much thicker myocardium
Does the overall electrical forces swing towards the left
Once the entire myocardium is depolarized there is no longer any potential difference
So they were tracing returns to Baseline
Illustrate this using lead one which again goes from the right arm to the left arm
As the interventricular septum depolarizes from left to right
The impulses moving away from the left arm which shows a small downward deflection
As the overall impulse wins back the left is now moving towards the positive electrode
So you see a strong positive deflection
Then the tracing return to Baseline what's depolarization is complete
You can see this forms a QR wave
Nothing about what this would look like for Li 3
Li 3 is an inferior lead
And the initial downward and right word impulse should be directed exactly towards the positive electrode for lead 3
This should appear as positive deflection
As overall forces continue downward
It's the left
It is traveling roughly perpendicular to the lead so they're chasing returns to Baseline
And as the impulse travels towards the left lateral Direction
It is traveling away from the positive electrode
So there should be negative deflection
You should recognize that this is an RS wave
So you can see that the exact same and pulse shows up differently in different leads because each lead has a different perspective
The same impulse
Now we have to consider the same concept in the transverse plane of the chest leads
It's important to remember that the right ventricle is anterior to left ventricle
Does as the impulse initially travels from the left side of the interventricular septum towards the right ventricle
The vector points both rightward and anteriorly
This would be
Towards lead V1
Sean is a positive deflection
And away from lead V6 Sean is a -2 Flex
As the impulse twins back the left ventricle the vector points
Leftward and posteriorly
This is away from b1 shown as a negative deflection
Taurus V6 shown as a positive deflection
Leads V2 V3
The 405 show the intermediate stages as the r-wave
Grows taller
This is turn R wave progression
The lead in which the height of the r-wave becomes a greater magnitude than the depth of the S Wave
It's called the transition
Which is usually lead V3 or V4
I think the best way to explain this is simply that the main Vector during ventricular depolarization is to the left
Through the thick of myocardium in the left ventricle
Does the further left the lead is the higher the r-wave should be
These examples show why QRS complexes have different patterns
Different leads in A Normal Heart
I hope it is clear that within a single ECG
YouTube can show different QRS pattern
Because each lead has a different perspective of the same impulse